it's cold in Arizona there's snow on the
ground yeah look at that snow pile in
the desert what are you doing snow pile
we're in the mountains though that's why
yeah we're in the desert mountains uh
I'm call this guy altitude training is a
long staple of the hardcore training
trip regimen we're here in Flagstaff
Arizona elevation 7,000 feet to discover
exactly why teams come here to train and
white flag staff is one of the premier
destinations for altitude training in
the really hard to breathe
my name is Andy John's I'm the head
coach for women's swimming at Northern
Arizona University Lumberjacks go
lumberjacks can you sing the fight song
we're the lumberjack somewhere okay
that's not him it should be right can
you explain to me what high-altitude
training is all about and why it
improves swimming ability your body
responds to the change in atmospheric
pressure to produce more red blood cells
we get all this extra oxygen carrying
capacity that stays with you when you
leave altitude and that
swim faster for a longer period of time
do you notice the difference when you go
out to training definitely it makes huge
difference in their down that sea level
competing against other teams it's
really dig to the heart of altitude
training because you don't know anything
about it I invented altitude training
record that it is good hi do a lot of
people have a hard time adjusting did
you have a hard time adjusting when you
came here yeah it takes it i think it
takes about a month to kind of adjust
would you recommend high altitude
training trips for other club teams
around the country yeah i think it's
definitely beneficial if the American
Gladiators can ever come to Flagstaff to
Train I have not seen do Kentucky Derby
horses come here I don't believe so does
Celine Dion come to Flagstaff not to my
knowledge if the lack of oxygen in this
high-altitude environment is going to
make Mike a faster swimmer then
shouldn't restricting his oxygen intake
in other ways do the exact same thing
only better I mean I hold my breath
first
Michael do you feel faster now no and
now the upper oh go
do you feel faster oh and now the true
test of high-altitude training blow it
up we got it we got put this out
one two three
I put my brother high-altitude training